

"Combined technical actions Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • The first two players from both sides run around the respective pole and receive a pass from their teammates. • They pass the ball back to the same player. • Afterward, they run through their respective cone gate and receive another pass from the same player. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on the Coaching • 12 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 4 poles Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical actions • Timing of movements with and without the ball • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc. • Communication • Change speed of action • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) 2 Warm-up Coordination parkour with technical elements Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 6 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 3 Min. per round, 6-10 rounds, change feints and coordination tasks after each round • Break: 1-2 Min. between rounds Variations Coaching Points • Vary feints and coordination tasks after each round. • Introduce different passing techniques • With give-and-go • The dribbling technique (small touches)- keep the ball close to the body • Use the whole body when doing feints • Change center gravity when feinting • Quality of technical actions • Acceleration into the free space after feint execution • Speed of action • Quality of Coordination tasks 3 Warm-up Warm-up circuit with Technique and Coordination Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Which team can score ten goals first? = 1 round • Duration:15-20 Min. • Break: 1-2 Min between rounds • 6 cones + 7 poles + 2 mannequin • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 2 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • Keep the head up while dribbling (Orientation & Scanning) • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Timing of Passes • Quality of Dribbling Actions • Active Body Position (open-body position, forefoot) • Communication (verbal & non-verbal) • High speed of actions and change of speed • Timing of movements with and without the ball • Quality of running actions • Vary the actions • Vary the ladder tasks • Vary the intensity and speed of actions 4 Preparation Main-part Feint combinations to finish Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. • Both teams start simultaneously by dribbling toward the first two cones, where they have to execute a feint to the right. • Afterward, the players have to dribble around the red cone before they dribble back to the two cones, where they have to execute a turn (e.g., Zidane‘s turn). • Then, the same process continues on the left side before both players can shoot at the mini-goal. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 5 Min. per variation, 3-5 variations (around 25-30 Min. in total) • Break: 2-3 Min. between the variations • 16 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 2-3 bib colors • 2 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • Keep the head up while dribbling • Keep the ball close to your own body • Active dribbling position with a low center of gravity • Quality of feint execution and changes of directions • Timing of movements • High speed of actions and change of speed • Change the feints and turns. • Add another 180-degree turn at the red cone • Only the fastest goal counts for the team. • Add more stations depending on the group size (max. of 5 players per station). 5 Warm-up Football Tennis Tournament Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • The team that wins can go to the right. The team that loses has to go to the left. • Duration: 5 Min. per game, 5-6 games • Break: 1-2 Min between each game • 4 cones • 2 poles • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Control of high balls • Application of different techniques • Anticipation of the balls Trajectory • Motivation and Fun • Verbal and non-verbal Communication • Change numerical situation (1v1, 2v2, 3v3, 5v5, 6v6); the number of pitches has to be adjusted accordingly. 6 Warm-up Ski race competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Players are lined up at their starting positions. • Two players always compete against each other. The faster player wins and gets one point for the team. • Which team can get 10 points first (10 points= 1 round)? • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 8 cones • 11 larger cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of Dribbling actions • Keep the ball close to the body by generating many touches • Active dribbling position with a low center of gravity • High speed of actions and change of speed • Heads up to see • Without balls • Change the ball type • Change the team‘s composition • Change the track • With finish on mini goal 7 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Color Dribbling Competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • The coach can call out one or more colors. • The players must react to the called color and dribble around the respective cones. • Then the players have to shoot at the respective mini-goal. • Duration: 20-30 Min. • Break: Depends on the Coaching • 21 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 3-4 bib colors • 4 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • Keep the head up while dribbling • Orientation and Scanning • Keep the ball close to the body by generating many touches • Active dribbling position with a low center of gravity • Quality of Feints and Changes of Direction • Communication (verbal & non-verbal) • High speed of actions and change of speed • Timing of movements • Quality of shooting actions • The trainer can install various tasks, e.g., dribbling with the outside of the foot. • Assign each color to a feint. The players dribble to the respective color/colors, execute the feint /feints, and then shoot at the goal. • Assign a ball mastery task to each color. 8 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part From color reaction to shot on mini-goal Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. • The competition begins with the coach's call of one or more colors. • The players in the square must touch the respective cones with their hands. • When you have touched all the called cones, the players run toward their teammates and receive a pass. • The players then turn 180 degrees and shoot at the mini-goal. • Then the players move up, and the whole thing starts again. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: 2 Min. between the rounds • 12 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 3 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • High speed of actions and change of speed • Timing of movements • Quick reaction to the signals • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Orientation and Scanning • Fun and Motivation • Active Body Position (open-body position, forefoot, low center of gravity) • Change the colors to numbers or football clubs. • Change the pass combination. • Only the fastest goal counts for the team. 9 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Simultaneous passing actions Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 2 cones • 6 poles • Amount of players = amount of balls • 0-1 bib colors • The players have to perform a series of actions. • Both sides start at the same time. • Please study the animation to understand the procedures. • Both sides start simultaneously by passing the ball to their teammate. The teammate passes the ball back to the starting position, turns 180 degrees, receives another pass from the other side, turns 180 degrees again, dribbles towards the player at the starting position who simulates a passive defender, executes a predetermined feint, and dribbles back to the starting position. • Duration: 5 Min. per Variation, 3-4 Variations (20-30 Min.) • Break: Depends on the Coaching Variations Coaching Points • See the animation • Keep the head up while dribbling • Quality of technical actions • Active Body Position (open-body position, forefoot) • Communication (verbal & non-verbal) • High speed of actions and change of speed • Quick Transition and Focus to the following action • Timing of movements 10 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part 2 balls pass-square Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 4 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) 11 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Short, quick pass combinations Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 4 cones + 2 poles • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • See animation • Change the ball type • Touch limitations 12 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Perception passing in 4 overlapping triangles Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Between the rounds, one group of the three triangles outside changes with the team inside. • Duration: 20-25 Min., 4-5 Min. per round • Break: 30 sec. 1 Min. minute between the rounds/variation, Depending on the Coaching • 5 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Change the pass combination (with give-and-go, Third-man combination, etc.). • Change the direction (clockwise, counterclockwise). 13 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Long balls over goal obstacle Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 14 cones • 6 large cones • 2 regular or smaller goals • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 2 ladders • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Both sides start simultaneously by passing the ball to the next player, who receives the ball and plays a long ball over the goal to the teammate running into the square. • The player receives the ball, finishes the first circle, and the next round can start. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • Change the pass combination (the goals positions also need to be adjusted) • Change the direction of the circle (clockwise, counter-clockwise) • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) 14 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Deep pass combination Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 6 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) 15 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Passing combination of free-choice Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 6 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Players must execute a free-passing combination using the three players in the central area. • Duration: 4 Min. per round, 4 rounds; after each round, change the three players outside to those inside the central area. • Break: 1-2 Min. Variations Coaching Points • The coach can introduce a fixed pass combination. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) 16 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Hexagon pass combinations Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 6 cones • 2 poles • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) • Add finishing on mini-goals 17 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Multiple pass actions Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 19 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib color • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing 18 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Technical-coordinative Team Activation Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 10 cones + 6 poles • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 4 ladders Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) 19 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Scanning and Passing Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • All players are positioned in one of the six squares. The teams consist of 5 players. Place a cone with different colors in each of the six squares. • One player starts with the ball. The aim is to pass the ball to a teammate and to shout a color. The color represents the target player, whom the player who receives the ball must pass to. After the pass, the player who played the pass has to run into the square without the player. • Necessary: I would usually put more than one team inside six squares and let them compete. It will make it much harder to orientate, and players will be provoked to scan the situations constantly. Also, you can introduce competition between the teams. Which team can finish 10 passes first? • Duration: 20-30 Min. • Break: depends on coaching • 12 cones • 6 cones with different colors • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-4 bib colors (depending on number of teams) Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing • Change the ball type • Add a number to each color • Change the receiving techniques • Give each receiving technique a number (players now shout a number and color). They have to execute the receiving technique according to the number. 20 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Short passes in rhombus shape Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 4 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • See animation • Change the ball type • Change the speed and intensity • Touch limitations (one-touch play) • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) 21 Main Part Counter pressing after shooting action Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Both sides of the animation show the same training form. • The team that is attacking first has to complete a pass combination with a finishing action. • Afterward, the coach will play a new ball to the other team. This is the signal for the team who had the shooting action to immediately counter-press. • The objective for the team in the Build-up Phase is to score into one of the 2 mini-goals. • The objective for the counter-pressing team is to gain possession and score another goal. • Duration: 5 Min., 4-6 rounds, Change tasks between the rounds • Break: 2 Min. • 10 Cones • 1-2 Bib colors • Amount of players = amount of balls • 4 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • Quickly counter-press after the shooting action, which symbolizes the loss of possession in the game • Quickly attack the goal after gaining possession after the counter-pressing phase when regaining the ball • Highest intensity • High speed of actions and change of speed • Positioning within the space • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Change the numerical situations by adding or reducing players. • Adjust space according to the level of the players • Change pass combinations of the first action. 22 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Double Rhombus pass combination Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 10 cones • Amount of players = amount of balls • 0-1 bib color • The players have to perform a defined pass combination. • Both sides start at the same time. • Please study the animation to understand the procedures. • Duration: 5-7 Min. per Variation, 3-4 Variations (20-30 Min.) • Break: Depending on the Coaching Variations Coaching Points • See the animation. • Use different types of balls. • Add finishing action. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Communication • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing 23 Warm-up/Preparation Main Part Triangle pass combinations - four-team competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Which team can score more goals after 4 Min.? • Duration: 4 Min. per round, 4-6 rounds • Break: 1-2 Min. • 12 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 4 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing • Change the pass combination after each competition. First, practice the new pass combination—afterward, have another competition. • See the animation 24 Preparation Main Part Positional Passing combinations Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 16 Mannequin • 1-2 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. Duration:25-30 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching Variations Coaching Points • Change the pass combinations. • Add mini-goals at the end of the pass combination and have a competition between both teams. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Timing 25 Main Part Team Shooting competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 6 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • One player from both teams starts by passing the ball to the teammate positioned at the dummy. The player at the mannequin receives the ball and shoots at the goal. Afterward, the other team starts their action. • The exercise always continues like this. • Which team can score the most goals within 5 Min.? • Duration: 5 Min. per round, four rounds; After each round, change to a new exercise variation. • Break: 1-2 Min. Between rounds Variations Coaching Points • See animation • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space 26 Main Part Wing combinations as a team competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 8 mannequin • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 1 regular goal • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. • The teams have to execute a specific pass combination, which was explained before by the coach. • Please see the animation to understand the process. • Both teams compete against each other. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 5-7 Min. per variation, 3-5 variations • Break: 2-3 Min. between the variations Variations Coaching Points • Change the pass combination. • Add time pressure, e.g., the combination and finish must be finished within a time limit. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box 27 Main Part Finishing team competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. The blue team starts by executing the multiple actions shown in the animation. Afterward, one yellow player from one side starts by dribbling toward the mannequin, executing a feint, and crossing the ball into the box. The team that executed the multiple actions before has to finish the cross. • The next team starts their multiple actions but from the other side. They also receive a cross from the other side to finish it. It constantly continues like this. • All teams have three players. Therefore, change one team inside with the team outside after 5 Min. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 25-30 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 5 cones • 5 mannequin • Amount of balls = amount of players • 3-4 bib colors • 1 regular goal Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box • Change the multiple actions to other actions. 28 Main Part Three Teams Shooting competition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 10 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 2-3 bib colors • 1 regular goal • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. The teams must execute a specific pass combination, which was explained before by the coach. The central pass combination is different from the one on the wing. • The yellow team always starts with their pass combination until the last player finishes on the goal. Afterward, the players outside execute their combination and cross the ball inside the box. Three players must position themselves (one yellow + 2 players from the wing area. • After that, the yellow team begins again, and the team on the other side will continue. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 5-7 Min. per variation, 3-5 variations • Break: 2-3 Min. between the variations Variations Coaching Points • Change the team's tasks regularly (rotate positions) • Change the pass combination • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box 29 Main Part 4v2 to finishing Action Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 12 Cones • 4 mannequin • 1-2 Bib colors • Amount of players = amount of balls • The exercise starts in a 4v2 situation. • After the blue team gains possession, their task is to have a quick offensive transition by creating a pass combination of their choice toward the goal and finish by scoring a goal. • The groups start one after another. • Change the roles of players regularly. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: 2 Min. Variations Coaching Points • Every group has its own goal. That means each group could start simultaneously. • Who scores the fastest goal? Count the time of the attack. • Defenders are allowed to defend the attack. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box 30 Main Part Finish after the involvement of GK Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute all players according to their position, as shown in the animation. • Both teams start simultaneously by passing the ball to their goalkeeper. The goalkeepers play a pass to the central players, and the central players play a diagonal pass to their teammates, who shoot at the goal. • The players already change to the next position during the execution of the pass combination. • Which team can score ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? • Duration: 20-30 Min. • Break: 2-3 Min. between the competitions • 4 cones • 4 poles • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 2 regular goal Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box • Change the pass combination • Change the starting position to the other side. • Only the fastest goal counts for the team. 31 Main Part Shooting practice with a run behind the defending line Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 6 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • Divide your group into two teams and distribute them according to the animation. Two players from one team start the exercise. One player must run behind the mannequin line, and the other must pass to this player with the right timing and the proper pressure. Then, the receiving player will shoot at the goal. Afterward, these two players go to the waiting lines of the opposite team. The opposing team can now start their actions. The exercise constantly continues like this. • The team that can score ten goals first wins. (1 round) • Duration: 20-30 minutes • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • See animation • Quality of shooting actions • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box 32 Main Part The Attacker becomes the new Goalkeeper Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Which team can score ten goals first? • Duration: 15-25 Min. • Break: 1-2 Min between the rounds • 3 cones • 2-3 bib colors • 3 regular goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of Feints • Heads up to see • Highest speed of action • Quality of Dribbling actions • Quick transition when becoming the new goalkeeper • Run around the left pole instead of the right pole. 33 Main Part Sprint race with 1v1 with the defender in the back Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 8 cones • 8 flat cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • Both players start at the same time. • Two players have to run through the Slalom. • Afterward, the quicker player will get a pass from the coach. • A 1v1 situation will occur until the ball is either in the regular goal or in one of the two mini-goals. • The player who first was in ball possession will attack the regular goal, and the other player will attack the two mini-goals when having a counterattack. • Duration: 15-25 Min. • Break: Depends on the Coaching Variations Coaching Points • Coach varies the type of pass. • Add a Time limit for attacks. • Use different balls. • Quality of finishing actions • Offensive 1v1: • Make use of feints to trap the opponent to one side • The breakthrough by changing the speed and exploding into the free space • If the opponent has body contact: Lateral body position, build up the distance between the ball and defender by placing the standing leg between the ball and the defender, and use your arm to build up even greater distance) • Defensive 1v1 • Shorten the distance to the defender and be aware of the distance to the attacker (too close or too far, depending on the situation). • Adjust your speed to the speed of the attacker • Be always prepared for attackers break-through attempt • Wait for the right moment to win the ball 34 Main Part 3v1 Ball possession to attack Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • 3v1 with another 3v1 afterward. • The game starts in a 3v1, intending to stay in possession. • After 3 passes, the attacking team can break through and face another 3v1 to score a goal. • Duration: 20 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching • 14 Cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 4 mini-goals Coaching Points Variations • High speed of actions and change of speed • Timing of movements • Positioning within the space • Smooth transition from ball possession to attack • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Quality of shooting actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Change the numerical situation of either the first or the second 3v1. • Changing the number of passes before scoring a goal is allowed, etc. 35 Main Part 4v2 to 3v1+2 attack Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 16 Cones • 1-2 Bib colors • Amount of players = amount of balls • 2 mini-goals • 2 regular goals • The exercise starts in a 4v2 situation. • If the red players play three passes, they can attack the goal in a 3v3+2. • The aim is to prepare the attack first to switch to a quick attack and use the short time being in numerical superiority. • If the two blue players can gain possession, they aim to score on the mini-goal. • Change teams regularly and let them compete against each other. Which team has more goals after all played rounds? • Duration: 4 Min per round. 4-6 rounds • Break: 2 Min. Variations Coaching Points • Change the numerical situation, e.g., 3v1 to 3v3+1. • Change organization to a circuit (shorter ways to return to the positions). • Attackers must make use of the 3v1 advantage • Quickly counter-press after losing the ball (Defensive Transition) • Quick counterattack after gaining possession (offensive Transition) • High speed of actions and change of speed • Timing of movements • Positioning within the space • Quick offensive transition • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Quality of shooting actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication 36 Main Part 4v2 to finishing Action Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 12 Cones • 4 mannequin • 1-2 Bib colors • Amount of players = amount of balls • The exercise starts in a 4v2 situation. • After the blue team gains possession, their task is to have a quick offensive transition by creating a pass combination of their choice toward the goal and finish by scoring a goal. • The groups start one after another. • Change the roles of players regularly. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: 2 Min. Variations Coaching Points • Every group has its own goal. That means each group could start simultaneously. • Who scores the fastest goal? Count the time of the attack. • Defenders are allowed to defend the attack. • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Accuracy of the first touch • First touch into the space • Accuracy and sharpness of passes and crosses • Positioning in the box 37 Main Part 10v0 attacking combinations Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • Amount of balls = amount of players • 0-1 bib colors • 8 Mannequins • 1 large goal • 2 medium size goals • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. Duration: 15-20 Min. • Break: 1-2 Min between the rounds Variations Coaching Points • See the animation • Pass combinations according to the game model, principles of play, etc. • Free decision-making • The coach introduces different pass combinations, which will be practiced after each other. Ultimately, let the players decide which pass combination they want to play. • The players of the team must stay connected to each other • From a lower to higher intensity • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Highest intensity • Positioning within the space • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Quality of fishing actions 38 Main Part From finishing action to 2v1+1 Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • 1st action: Blue players from positions A and B play a high ball to the two red defenders. The two red defenders must defend the ball by heading it into the respective mini-goal. • 2nd Action: The coach plays a new ball to the two red players, and a 2v1 begins. • 3rd action: Players C and B from the blue team enter the field, and a 3v2 begins. • 4th Action: Two red players from beside the goal enter the field, and a 4v3 begins. • 5th Action: One blue player from position D enters, and the game continues as 4v4. • Which team can get ten goals first (10 goals = 1 round)? Change team tasks after each round. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 8 cones • 11 larger cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Accurate defensive action (1st action) • Attackers must make use of overload situations • Quick transitions between consecutive actions • Quick transitions after gaining or losing possession • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Situation Coaching: Coach certain situations that occur • Add time limit for attacks 39 Main Part From shooting action to 2v1 to 3v2 to 3v3 Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 4 cones • 2 mannequin • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 1st Action: Players from position A dribble toward the mannequin and shoot at the goal. • 2nd action: A blue player from position B enters the playing area. A 2v1 starts until the ball is either in the goal or out of bounds. • 3rd action: Two red players from positions B and C enter the field to create a 3v2 until the ball is either in the goal or out of bounds. • 4th action: One blue player from position C gets inside to create 3v3 until the ball is either in the goal or out of bounds. • Duration: 25-30 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching Variations Coaching Points • Vary feints • Add a time limit for attacks • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Accurate defensive action (1st action) • Attackers must make use of overload situations • Quick transitions between consecutive actions • Quick transitions after gaining or losing possession • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Situation Coaching: Coach certain situations that occur 40 Main Part 3v3 wave practice Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 8 cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 2-3 bib colors • This game form consists of three teams. • The game will start in the middle. The coach plays a ball to the attacking team, and their objective is to break through and score a goal. • If the defending team wins the ball, they must get over the first middle line. Until the new attacking team doesn’t reach that line, the old attacking team can counter-press to regain possession. • A new attack starts on the right goal if they can get over the middle zone. • There are two ways to continue the game when the attacking team scores a goal. 1st: the attacking team can start a new attack on the other side 2nd: The team that scored the goal becomes the defending team, and the team that was the defending team can start a new attack. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching Variations Coaching Points • Change the numerical situation by adding neutral players or changing the teams' size (1v1, 2v2, 4v4, etc.). • The goalkeeper counts down a time limit for the attacking team to score a goal. • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Quick transitions between consecutive actions • Quick transitions after gaining or losing possession • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Situation Coaching: Coach certain situations that occur • Coach different solutions how to solve a 3v3 situation 41 Main Part 4v2 wave attacks Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Organization Explanation • 12 cones • 2 Bib colors • Amount of players = amount of balls • 2 regular goals • In this game, 4v2 attacks take place alternately. Two players from each team are in the outer zones, and these players create the 4v2 overload situation with the two players coming into the field from next to the goal. If a goal is scored or the ball is outside, the two defenders (who conceded the goal) and the two attackers who scored the goal switch with four new players. • The players in the outer areas constantly change after the attacking team scores a goal. • Duration: 4-6 Min. per round, 4-6 rounds • Break: 2 Min. between the rounds Variations Coaching Points • Add Time pressure • Change the numerical situation, e.g., 5v3, 6v4. • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Make use of the +2 numerical advantage • Quick transitions between consecutive actions • Quick transitions after gaining or losing possession • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Situation Coaching: Coach certain situations that occur • Coach different solutions how to solve a 4v2 situation 42 Main Part SAQ with Shooting action 2 Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • The players execute a pass combination. • After each player's action, players must go through a coordinative station when moving to the next position. • The combination always ends with a finishing action. • As competition between both teams: Which team can score more goals per round? • Duration: 7 Min. per round, 2-3 rounds • Break: 2-3 Min. • 12 cones • 4 mannequin • 2 ladders • 6 hurdles • 6 rings • Amount of players = amount of balls • 1-2 bib colors • 2 regular goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Quality of coordination • Quality of running actions • Timing of movements • Agility • Execution Speed and Change of Speed • Change the coordination tasks • Change the running tasks • Change the pass combination • Change the intensity 43 Preparation Main Part From shooting actions to 9v4 possession game Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Either the red or the blue team starts shooting at the goals one after the other. • Afterward, all four players get a pass from the other team waiting outside to have a second finishing action. • Finally, the coach will play in a third ball, and the team waiting outside gets inside to start the pressing moment. • A 9v4 game begins. • If the defending team gains possession, they must score one of the four goals. • After each game, the roles of the teams switch. • Duration: 20-30 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching • 8 cones • Amount of players = amount of balls • 2-3 bib colors • 4 regular goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of shooting actions • Quality of passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Timing of movements • Quick transitions between consecutive actions • Quick transitions after gaining or losing possession • Positioning within the space • Constant movement without the ball • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Coach decision-making • Execution Speed and Change of Speed • Change the shooting techniques. • Fixed time for the 9v4 at the end. E.g., 4 Min. or fixed amount of balls, e.g., three balls. 44 Main Part 1v1+1 (2v1) Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Two players from each team are positioned in their build-up zone. In the attacking zone, each team has placed one attacker. • The game that starts in the build-up zone is in ball possession and has to get over the yellow line in the middle to create a three 3v2 in the attacking zone. The game continues until a goal is scored or the ball is out of bounds. The defending team can directly counterattack if they win the ball. • The game always continues from the site where the goal was scored. • 8 cones • 8 flat cones • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors • 2 regular goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical actions • Prepare the breakthrough into the next zone • Triangulation • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Constant movement without the ball • Timing of movements • Positioning within the space • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Execution Speed and Change of Speed • Quick offensive and defensive transition • Use neutral players to create a numerical advantage • See animation (2v2 Build-up to 4v2 attack) 45 Main Part Three colors attacking game with quick transition Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • The game begins in a 6v6 and always starts from the middle. • The blue team starts as the defending team, and the red team starts as the attacking team. • One neutral team waits in the build-up zone. • The team that gains possession must get over the yellow middle line. When the yellow team gets over the yellow middle line, a 6v4 in the attacking zone begins. • When the defending team wins the ball in the attacking zone, they can immediately counterattack on the other side. They become the attacking team, and the neutral team switches tasks. • After every sequence, the coach plays a new ball into the middle. • Which team scores ten goals first? • Duration: 25-30 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching • 8 cones • 2 mannequin • Amount of players = amount of balls • 1-2 bib colors • 2 regular goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical actions • Prepare the breakthrough into the next zone • Triangulation • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Constant movement without the ball • Timing of movements • Positioning within the space • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Execution Speed and Change of Speed • Quick offensive and defensive transition • Use neutral players to create a numerical advantage • Use only two teams, each team gets four attacks in a row 46 Main Part 2v1 Finishing drill Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 8 cones • 2 regular goals • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical actions • Timing of movements with and without the ball • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Quality of finishing actions • Quick defensive transition after finishing action • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Positioning within the space • Accurate passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Quick decision-making • Coach decision-making • See animation • Increase numerical superiority in attack to 3v1, 4v2, etc. 47 Main Part Passing and Receiving in a 6-square Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Players are positioned in 6 squares. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 4 cones • 1 regular goal • Amount of balls = amount of players • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Change the receiving techniques • Add finishing actions • Add neutral players to create a numerical advantage • See animation 48 Main Part 2v2 to finishing Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Two teams start simultaneously at both sides. • The player with the ball plays a pass to his teammate, who dribbles toward the two cones. • Afterward, both players have to execute a double pass action before entering the zone to finish the attack. • After their attack, both players immediately defend against the next two attackers. • If the defenders gain possession, they must dribble over the two cones. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: 2 Min. • 8 cones • 4 poles • 2 regular goals • Amount of players = amount of balls • 1-2 bib colors Variations Coaching Points • 3v3 with three mini-goals as defensive transition • Quality of technical actions • Timing of movements with and without the ball • Highest speed of actions and change of speed • Quality of finishing actions • Quick defensive transition after finishing action • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Positioning within the space • Accurate passing and receiving actions • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Quick decision-making • Coach decision-making 49 Main Part Multiple triangles passing and finishing Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • Please study the animation to understand the process. • Duration: 20-25 Min. • Break: Depends on coaching • 8 cones • 4 poles • 2 regular goals • Amount of players = amount of balls • 1-2 bib colors Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical execution (accuracy and sharpness) • Heads up to see • Speed and change of speed • Verbal and non-verbal communication • Positioning within the space (open-body, 360-degree view) • Timing of movements without the ball • Adjust the sharpness of the ball for different distances • Active body positioning (forefoot, low center of gravity, etc.) • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Change the receiving techniques • Add finishing actions • Add neutral players to create a numerical advantage • See animation • Add neutral players • With different balls 50 Main Part 7v3 to 10v6 counter-pressing possession game Own Team in Possession Defensive Transition Build-up Counter Pressing Midfield Possession Hold Height Create and finish attack Draw back Offensive Transition Out of Possession Direct counter attack High Press Ball possession Midfield Press Low Block Explanation Organization • Distribute the players according to the animation. • The game always starts in the central playing area. • Within that area, the game that is taking place is a 7v7+4. • The team out of possession aims to gain possession and launch an attack on both sides. The team that loses possession has the objective to counter-press immediately. • The attack will be a 3v2 situation. • If the counterattack succeeds, teams in the middle can switch tasks; if not, the team remains in the same role. • Duration: 30 Min. • Break: Depending on the Coaching • 8 cones • 10 flat cones • 2-3 bib colors • 2 large goals Coaching Points Variations • Quality of technical actions • Triangulation • Non-verbal and verbal communication • Constant movement without the ball • Timing of movements • Positioning within the space • Pre-orientation and Orientation (Scanning) • Execution Speed and Change of Speed • Quick offensive and defensive transition • Rapid adaptation to new game situations • Quick counter-press after loss of possession • Tactical decision-making • Add a second shooting action after the 3v2 attack. Coach plays in another ball (2nd Chance) • Change the numerical situation of the offensive transition, e.g., 4v3, 5v4, etc."
